add troubleshooting of http proxy setting (#240)
harvester/docs: docs/troubleshooting/harvester.md

title: ""
---

## Fail to Deploy Multi-node Cluster due to Incorrect HTTP Proxy Setting

### Configure HTTP Proxy During Harvester Installation

> In some environments, you configure [HTTP Proxy](../airgap/#configure-an-http-proxy-during-installation) during Harvester installation.

Reviewer: This setting will only take effect during the ISO installation and will not apply to the underneath RKE2 services directly. So I was wondering if it is because users have added the system `http-proxy` setting that causes the problem.

Author: updated. The user configured `http-proxy` in Harvester GUI, then the issue came.

Seems we did not highlight/automatically add the NODE IP/CIDR into `noProxy`.

### One Node Becomes Unavailable

The issue you may encounter:

```
The first node is installed successfully.

The second node is installed successfully.

The third node is installed successfully.

Then the second node changes to Unavialable state and cannot recover automatically.
```

### Solution

> When the nodes in the cluster are not using the HTTP Proxy to communicate with each other, after the first node is installed successfully, you need to login into the `Harvester GUI` to configure [no-proxy](../airgap.md#configure-an-http-proxy-in-harvester-settings) against the CIDR used by those nodes.

Reviewer: it can also be configured via https://docs.harvesterhci.io/v1.1/install/harvester-configuration#system_settings during the installation.

> For example, one cluster assigns IP from CIDR `172.26.50.128/27` to `NODEs` via DHCP/static setting, please add this CIDR into `no-proxy`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if a cluster assigns IPs from CIDR `172.26.50.128/27` to nodes via DHCP/static setting, please add this CIDR to `no-proxy`.
```

Reviewer 2: Not sure if it means `if`. Please double check

Author: I changed to `your cluster`, it fits more to the context.

The `login into` should be correct, it means user inputs username and password in the login page.

After this setting, you can continue to join new `NODEs` into the cluster.

> For more details, please refer [Harvester issue 3091](https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/3091).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more details, please refer to [Harvester issue 3091](https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/3091).
```

title: ""
---

> ## Fail to Deploy a Multi-node Cluster due to Incorrect HTTP Proxy Setting

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Fail to Deploy a Multi-node Cluster Due to Incorrect HTTP Proxy Setting
```

### ISO Installation Without a Harvester Configuration File

#### Configure HTTP Proxy During Harvester Installation

In some environments, you configure [http-proxy](../airgap/#configure-an-http-proxy-during-installation) of [OS Environment](../install/harvester-configuration.md#osenvironment) during Harvester installation.

#### Configure HTTP Proxy After First Node is Ready

> After the first node is installed successfully, you login into the `Harvester GUI` to configure [http-proxy](../airgap.md#configure-an-http-proxy-in-harvester-settings) of [Harvester System Settings](../install/harvester-configuration.md#system_settings).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After the first node is installed successfully, you log in to the `Harvester GUI` to configure [http-proxy](../airgap.md#configure-an-http-proxy-in-harvester-settings) of [Harvester System Settings](../install/harvester-configuration.md#system_settings).
```

Author: `login` means input `user credential like username and password`, it is a defined word in IT. please keep it unchanged.

Reviewer 3: The definition you listed is correct, but login is a noun or adjective. In the context here, it's being used as a verb.

Reviewer 3: `login` is the noun or adjective form while the verb form is `log in`. In any case, if you want to keep it as `login` the next word should be `to` instead of `into`.

> Then you continue to add more nodes into the cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Then you continue to add more nodes to the cluster.
```

#### One Node Becomes Unavailable

The issue you may encounter:

```
The first node is installed successfully.

The second node is installed successfully.

The third node is installed successfully.

> Then the second node changes to Unavialable state and cannot recover automatically.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Then the second node changes to Unavailable state and cannot recover automatically.
```

Author: It is not necessary to add `an` is this context.

```

#### Solution

When the nodes in the cluster do not use the HTTP Proxy to communicate with each other, after the first node is installed successfully, you need to configure [http-proxy.noProxy](../airgap.md#configure-an-http-proxy-in-harvester-settings) against the CIDR used by those nodes.

> For example, your cluster assigns IPs from CIDR `172.26.50.128/27` to nodes via DHCP/static setting, please add this CIDR to `noProxy`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, your cluster assigns IPs from CIDR `172.26.50.128/27` to nodes via DHCP/static setting. This CIDR must then be added to `noProxy`.
```

Author: I am not sure if it is goog to break this `for example` into two sentences, it explians one thing.

> After this setting, you can continue to add new nodes to the cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After setting this, you can continue to add new nodes to the cluster.
```

For more details, please refer to [Harvester issue 3091](https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/3091).

### ISO Installation With a Harvester Configuration File

> When a Harvester configuration file is used in ISO installation, please configure proper `http-proxy` in [Harvester System Settings](../install/harvester-configuration.md#system_settings).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a Harvester configuration file is used in an ISO installation, please configure `http-proxy` in [Harvester System Settings](../install/harvester-configuration.md#system_settings).
```

It should be implied that any configuration made should be proper/correct, so it's safe to drop `proper` here.

Author: It is also not necessary to add `an` to `ISO installation` in this context.  

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/31133476/202416066-2786bdc5-953d-4459-aa79-668cb9a73136.png)

The `proper` also refers to what are emphasised here, prefer to keep it.

### PXE Boot Installation

> When [PXE Boot Installation](../install/pxe-boot-install.md) is adopt, please configure proper `http-proxy` in [OS Environment](../install/harvester-configuration.md#osenvironment) and [Harvester System Settings](../install/harvester-configuration.md#system_settings).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a [PXE Boot Installation](../install/pxe-boot-install.md) is adopted, please configure `http-proxy` in [OS Environment](../install/harvester-configuration.md#osenvironment) and [Harvester System Settings](../install/harvester-configuration.md#system_settings).
```

Author: Similar, `a` is not necessary.
